if there's one BMW in particular I've
coveted more than any other in recent
years it's the x6 I just love it's coupe
like SUV styling in high performance
which is why I find this all-new x4 so
appealing like a baby x6 it's got the
looks and the moves without the big
price tag just when you thought BMW
couldn't possibly be not anymore body
styles the us-built x4 arrives in their
increasingly crowded showroom for 2015
though they're a mouthful to say and
absolutely meaningless to 90% of car
shoppers the trim levels are familiar to
those in the know starting with the
xdrive28i fitted with a turbo 4 and
priced from 47,000 150 and then for the
sporty minded there's this model the
xdrive35i motivated by BMWs famous 3
liter twin-turbo inline 6 either way
there are eight years modulating power
to all four wheels this top trim x4
begins at just under 50,000 and like
other BMW sports activity vehicles is
available in the base X line and the
racier M Sport line of course my tester
is an M Sport plus so much more
adding the driver assistance lighting
premium and technology packages for an
as-tested price of sixty one thousand
350 about ten thousand dollars less than
a comparable x6 I fell hard for the x4
this week captivated by its sexier coupe
styled roofline and the host of M Sport
touches such as these 19 inch double
spoke wheels shadow line trim a muscular
aerodynamic kit am steering wheel sports
seats enveloped in ivory white leather
with red stitching and of course this
melbourne red metallic paint though they
share a wheelbase which for comparison's
sake is nearly identical to an Audi q5 s
the x4 is actually longer than its
traditionally styled counterpart the x3
and sits lower to an
it's got a go appeal it could really
jump to life
hitting 60 miles per hour in only 5.2
seconds 1/10 quicker than the x3 the
compromise BMW asks you to make in
exchange for the x4 swagger is in rear
seat space and luggage volume both of
which take fairly substantial hits but
other than wishing for more foot room I
had no problem getting comfortable back
here kids sit too low however and the
nearly fold flat seats with moveable
tied down cleats and other clever
storage options afford more room than I
would have thought at just less than 50
cubic feet the x4 stuff at space is even
less than in a BMW x1 with a sporty
suspension setup in 300 horses on tap
the x4 is a fun sized SUV that
understands that it's still a BMW the
xDrive system has been put to good use
this week as well with the all season
Goodyear's able to find traction even in
this heavy wet snow we received I
wouldn't change a thing about the export
drivability its effortlessly powerful
silky smooth in its operation and has a
very comfortable ride quality the x4 is
an excellent alternative to the x3 the
optional dynamic damper control shocks
imbue the x4 with BMWs hallmark softness
while still being able to rip up your
favor
the different driving modes truly have
distinguishing traits ranging from the
gas-saving EcoPro with a very smooth
start/stop system and coasting function
to improve mileage to the uninhibited
Sport Plus where ships are exceptionally
quick and the traction control backs off
the engine is torquing helps make great
sounds and just like the engine
transmission and suspension the steering
is shoes getting heavier as you climb
the ladder it's a wonderful driving
experience and will certainly please
those who want in on the small crossover
craze but don't want to forego a lively
motoring lifestyle even at 4,000 260
pounds the x4 feels eager to turn and
always energetic leveraging the xDrive
systems torque vectoring across the rear
axle for improved cornering if you
achieve the EPA numbers gas mileage is
impressive at 19mpg city/27mpg and of
course an easy step in height leads to
body hugging front seats and that more
commanding view of the road SUV drivers
love the aluminum trim looks great but
I've grown tired of BMWs cabins in
general and this one looks like every
other with dated orange lighting and an
infotainment system that's still 50%
more complicated than it has to be the
features are cool with some standout
apps like online search but their
affinity to tiny little symbols is a
fail heads-up display is always welcome
but I missed got a habit items like side
blind zone alert
it's a well-stocked comfortable quiet
cabin but I'd love to see BMW get out of
the 80s and really mix things up this
x4r the Audi sq5
something to ponder while you're
dreaming of your next hot SUV for
test-drive now.com I'm Steve Hammes